Add new tutorial - "Anatomy of a CID" (#359)
ProtoSchool/protoschool.github.io: src/tutorials/0006-anatomy-of-a-cid/05.md

---
    title: "CIDv1: Multibase prefix"
    type: "multiple-choice"
---

So now our CIDv1 in binary looks like this:

`<cid-version><ipld-format><multihash>`

Since binary CIDs are not very human-friendly, we can represent these binary CIDs in a string form (binary data represented as text). Example:

`bafybeigdyrzt5sfp7udm7hu76uh7y26nf3efuylqabf3oclgtqy55fbzdi`

Converting data between binary and string formats requires base encoding, so when working with string CIDs it's important that we know the type of base encoding that was applied to the binary data. But how can we identify this?

> In `CIDv0`, hashes are **always** encoded with `base58btc`. _Always_. This means that we can safely interpret `CIDv0` hashes assuming they are using `base58btc`. But, for performance reasons, we may want to support multiple base encodings. For that, you guessed it, we can add another prefix!

Reviewer: @zebateira @terichadbourne ( FOR LATER!!! ) please consider incorporating this change into a future version of the doc. There is no practically noticeable performance impact between base58btc and base32 encoding: the main reason is usability.

> In `CIDv0`, hashes are **always** encoded with `base58btc`. _Always_. This means that we can safely interpret `CIDv0` hashes assuming they are using `base58btc`. But, for performance reasons, we may want to support multiple base encodings. For that, you guessed it, we can add another prefix!

Reviewer 2: updated

## Multibase prefix

[Multibase](https://github.com/multiformats/multibase) prefixes, which represent the base encoding used when converting CIDs between string and binary formats, are **only used in the string form of the CID**:

![Multibase Prefix](tutorial-assets/T0006L05-multibase-prefix.jpg)

Let's examine two examples of CIDs in their string form:

![String form examples](tutorial-assets/T0006L05-string-form.jpg)

> We know the first one is a `CIDv0` because it starts with `Qm...`. All hashes that start with `Qm` can safely be interpreted as `base58btc` as a CID of Version 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know the first one is a `CIDv0` because it starts with `Qm...`. All CIDs that start with `Qm` can safely be interpreted as `base58btc` as a CID of Version 0.
```

> The second one starts with `bafy...`. The first character `b` is the base encoding prefix indentifier for `base32`, which is used by default by most implementations of IPFS.

Author: ```suggestion
The second one starts with `b...`. The character `b` is the base encoding prefix identifier for `base32`, which is used by default by most implementations of IPFS.
```

Author: @terichadbourne @ribasushi

Reviewer: Yup, this is it! Fixing the images would be great too, but if too much work: meh 😺
